in this video we're gonna talk about how
to use 7-inch theorem to calculate the
current that is flowing through the load
resistor RL so what we need to do is we
need to determine the Thevenin
resistance and the Thevenin voltage once
we do that we could simplify the circuit
like this here is the load of resistor
this is the Thevenin resistance and this
is the Thevenin voltage and in this form
it will be relatively easy to calculate
the current flowing through the load
resistor so let's find a Thevenin
resistance first so we need to do is
redraw the circuit we're going to be
placed the independent voltage source
with a short circuit the independent
current source will be replaced with an
open circuit so we're not gonna draw
anything there and we're gonna draw what
is left over from point A to point B so
we're going to take out the load
resistor what we need to do is calculate
the equivalent resistance of the circuit
from point a and point B now notice that
the 4 ohm resistor is in parallel to the
5 ohm resistor so the equivalent
resistance of those two resistors will
be 1 over 4 plus 1 over 5 raised to the
minus 1 now these two resistors are in
series with the 9 ohm resistor so we can
add 9 if you want to you can redraw the
circuit like this this can help you to
see it better
so this is point a and this is point B
so here's the 9 ohm resistor this is the
4 and this one's the 5 so now you can
see that these two are parallel to each
other but in series with the 9 so the
Thevenin resistance is going to be you
should get 11 point 2 repeating so
that's the Thevenin resistance our next
step is to calculate the Thevenin
voltage so what I'm going to do now is
get rid of the load resistor because
what we need here is an open circuit to
calculate the Thevenin voltage you need
to have everything except a load
resistor so what we need to do is
calculate the voltage potential between
points a and B now we're going to assign
this potential zero volts so that's
going to be the potential at point B
let's call this new point Point C now
because we have an open circuit here
after we remove the load resistor
there's no current flowing through the
night ohm resistor if there's no current
flowing through it there is no voltage
drop across the nine ohm resistor which
means that VC is equivalent to VA and
since VB is zero the Thevenin voltage
will be equal to VA so if we could find
VC then in this example that's going to
equal the feminine voltage so we're
going to use nodal analysis to get the
job done so let's focus on Point C and
the currents that are entering and
leaving Point C so let's call this
current one it's going into point C so
that's going to be a positive current
we'll call this current - that's flowing
into the junction and then I 3 is
leaving the job
so according to kirchoff's current law
the sum of the currents flowing in and
out of a junction is going to add up to
one so we have positive I 1 plus I 2
minus I 3 and that's going to equal zero
now we know that the current is equal to
the voltage divided by the resistance
based on Ohm's law so to calculate I 1
the voltage across this resistor is
going to be 50 volts minus the potential
at Point C divided by the 4 ohm resistor
I to is based on a current source of 3
amps I 3 now there's no current flowing
through the nyam resistor so I 3 is
flowing completely through the 5 volt
resistor so I 3 is going to be the
potential at C minus the potential at B
which is zero divided by the 5 one
resistor because I three all of it flows
through the five ohm resistor so now we
have this we need to calculate or solve
for VC let's multiply both sides by 20
so we're gonna have 20 divided by 4
which is 5 and that's gonna be
multiplied by 50 minus VC and then 20
times 3 is 60 and then 20 divided by 5
is 4 times what we see here so that's
going to be negative 4 VC now let's
distribute 5 250 minus VC so 5 times 50
is 250 minus 5 VC plus 60 minus 4 VC
which equals 0
250 plus 60 that's V 10 negative 5 plus
negative 4 is negative 9 BC but if we
move it to the other side
it's going to be positive 9 BC dividing
both sides by 9 we get VC which equals
the Thevenin voltage and that's going to
be
three 10/9 which is 34.4 repeating so
that's the Thevenin voltage for this
problem so now we can draw the
simplified circuit which looks like this
so we have a Thevenin voltage of thirty
four point four we have a Thevenin
resistance of eleven point two and a
load resistance of six ohms which was
what I wrote down before so now we can
calculate the current flowing through
the load resistance so that current is
going to be the voltage divided by these
two resistors in series the voltage is
thirty four point four repeating and the
resistance is going to be eleven point
two repeating plus six so that's thirty
four point four repeating over seventeen
point two repeating which gives us a
current of two amps so that is the
current flowing through the load
resistor now we can confirm the answer
body solve them for everything in the
circuit so here is the circuit that I
redrew and we said that the current
flowing through the six ohm resistor is
two amps so if this is the ground
potential at zero volts two times six
will give us a potential at Point a
which will be 12 volts and we said this
is Point C now we still have two amps of
current flowing through the nine ohm
resistor so 9 times 2 is 18 add an 18 a
12 gives us a potential of 30 volts at
Point C now 30 divided by 5 is 6 so we
have a current of 6 amps flowing through
the 5 ohm resistor
now let's think about this so we got two
amps flowing in this direction six go in
here that means that there must be eight
currents I mean not a currents but eight
amps of current that is flowing in that
direction now we have a current source
of three amps flowing in this direction
so 8 minus 3 is 5 which indicates that 5
amps of current is flowing through the 4
ohm resistor now 5 times 4 is 20 so we
have a voltage drop of 20 and that's a
30 that gives us the potential of 50 at
this point so we could see that
everything makes sense everything adds
up all the currents and the voltages
they follow you know KVL and the KCl
laws so that's it for this problem